When I gave up on religion, there was such an emptiness.
Because I really wanted to believe in God my whole life.
I wanted to believe, where were you?
You knew I was looking for you, God.
And I felt abandoned.
My love for photography was way back to about age six,
when I got my first little Kodak Instamatic.
I just thought it was a wonderful way to document the world.
Dad was very much, I give back to the community kind of guy.
My mom, her biggest quality is empathy.
So growing up with that, I saw the best way to be helpful to people
was also to become a priest.
Because I thought those were the best people in the best position
to be the most help.
When I was 18, I went to the college seminary.
And that was the road to the priesthood.
I left their angry because we were all going through the motions of ritual.
There was no authenticity.
After a few years, I entered a monastery in the United States
as a counselor in training, working with alcoholic priests.
But again, it reinforced my disappointment with the church
because here was the big secret.
Here's where all the troubled priests go.
I felt everything I had believed in had been a lie.
I tried Zen Buddhism.
I tried Tibetan Buddhism.
I went through all of the churches.
And there was nothing there, nothing.
And I said, we're done.
By this point, I had a real edge.
Very, very angry person.
I felt the world had done me over.
I noticed that was reflected in my photography.
There were less and less people in the pictures
and more and more buildings and objects.
As a psychologist, a professor, a counseling professor,
my mission was accomplished.
My student could leave that class and had learned how to think for themselves
and not just to take in what they're being sold.
I did think about organizations lying to people.
You know, I'd been a student of all sorts of learnings,
but there was always something missing.
When Tom asked me to study with him, I did feel intimidated
because here you had a man who was a professional in the secular world.
He was a teacher at college, a psychologist.
So to me, that was a challenge.
I had a big ol' notebook of questions.
And he sat beside me.
And he said, so you have some questions, and I said, yeah.
Here we go.
How did your organization handle child sexual abuse?
How does the money work?
What's the check in balance?
Where's the transparency?
And what I noticed, what he always did, he answered them from Scripture.
This was revolutionary in my mind because these were not just some institutions' views
or some individuals' views, but this was the very authority of God.
You know, studying the Bible changed my life for the better, completely.
I love the diversity of the congregation.
I'm learning so much about how we're all the same.
I have a lot more pictures of people.
When people lose hope, they've lost everything.
And by studying the Bible, you learn
why there is suffering, why people die.
You learn that this whole world is not spiraling out of control.
By coming to have a real personal relationship with the supreme sovereign of the universe,
it gives you hope.
I love what I'm still learning.
I learn every day.
And that's the difference.
I have confidence in what I'm learning.
Confidence that it's the truth.